# Amplitude-Modulation-and-Demodulation
# Introduction
The main objective of this project was to Amplitude Modulate two signals and demodulate them using two circuits. For this assignment the signals were Amplitude Modulated using MATLAB software. And Demodulated them using circuits built using Multisim Software. This technique is used for AM radio transmission across the world and gives the ability to transmit audio signals from different radio stations without one interfering with the other.
# Methods
Loaded two audio files into MATLAB. Extracted 5 seconds of the audio using the appropriate time vector range desired. A 5th Butterworth low pass filter was defined and was applied to the segment of audio signal extracted. The Butterworth filter was created using the MATLAB built in function butter with a cutoff frequency of 2kHz. The filter was then applied using the built in lsim function. Normalized the filtered signals by dividing each signal through by the value of its greatest sample. The value of the greatest sample was found using the built-in function maxk. Normalizing was done so the signals ranges between -1 and 1. Added 1 to the normalized signal to make the signals range from 0 to 2. Up-sampled the signals to a higher sampling frequency of 120KHz. This was done using the built-in function resample. The resample function given three parameters; normalized audio signals, time vector and the new up-sampling frequency. 
    The next step was to create carrier signals with the specified carrier frequencies, 20kHz and 30kHz. The carrier signals were created using cosine function. Dot multiplied these carrier signals with each of the up-sampled audio signals. Dot multiplying created new signals that has each of the respective carrier signals and up-sampled signals. Plotted each of the modulated signal’s Fast Fourier Transform using the provided myFFT function. Added the individual modulated signals to create the final modulated signal. Plotted and examined its Fast Fourier Transform. Assigned a dynamic variable data with the modulated signal and time vector data. This was then saved to a Multisim readable .txt file using save function.
    For the next part two circuits, one for each carrier frequencies were built in the Multisim software. The first component placed was a piecewise linear current source. Input given to this component was the .txt created in the previous step. Other parts of the circuit were an inductor and capacitor in parallel, a virtual 3T Op-Amp, a virtual diode, and a resistor and a capacitor in parallel. To find the inductor and capacitor values of the LC circuit that gives us a pole, the provided impedance equation Z=   sL/(s^2 LC+1) was used. Substituted the value of C with 1×10^(-6) Henry and substituted s with the carrier frequency of the respective signals in  rads⁄sec. Took the denominator of 
the equation and set it equal to 0. Solved for the variable L. Used the tf and bode function in MATLAB to check if the pole is located at the carrier frequencies. Similarly, for the RC circuit the values of the resistor and capacitor was found by first substituting C with 1×10^(-6) Henry and solving the equation RC=  1×10^(-3)  for R. Set the values of the components with the ones we found. Ran a transient simulation for seconds. Saved the resulting demodulated signal data into an .lvm file. Imported the data onto to MATLAB using lvm_import function provided. Played the demodulated signal using the soundsc function. Compared the original audio with demodulated audio. Finally, examined the myFFT of the demodulated signals and noted the differences.
# Results
The results were as expected. Was able to successfully modulate and demodulate two audio signals. The demodulated signal had some noise in it but was able to hear the audio. The quality of the audio of demodulated signal was expected to be lower than the original audio signal. Examined the two modulated signal’s myFFT plots, before they were combined, and examined their frequency content. Also, examined the frequency content of the combined modulated signal. Was able to locate both the modulated signals in it. They were located exactly where they were expected to be, at 20kHz and 30kHz. Also, examined the myFFT plot of the demodulated signals and found the frequency contents to be very different from the modulated signal. The signals are shifted to the left and centered at 0 with a higher magnitude. The transient simulation showed how the demodulated signal was produced by tracing along the modulated signal’s top outside edge.
# Discussion
In the myFFT plot of the combined modulated signals, there were no overlaps between the two signals in the first look but when zoomed in was able to see a slight area of overlap. It is to be believed that this overlap had no significant impact since the content in that area was negligible. The signals could have been placed closer together, but this would mean that there would be more overlap and will cause the signals to be indistinguishable. The minimum space between the signals should be at least two times the width of the signals. The closer the signals the more stations we can have without interference. The myFFT of the demodulated signal had it centered at 0 in the plot with higher magnitude. This shift was expected since during the process of modulation the signal was shifted to the right by the carrier signal. The demodulation process removed this this shift. The concept of convolution was used when the up-sampled signal was dot multiplied with the carrier signal in time domain, in the frequency domain the signals were convolved
